okay the rtx 3070 from nvidia this is
their
least expensive and likely gonna be
their most popular of their three
recently announced gpus the 3080 the
3090 and now
the 500 3070 and the reason why i think
it's gonna be so popular is because of
that price to performance ratio because
nvidia claims that this gpu
delivers similar if not better
performance
to the 2080 ti this was a 1200
gpu at launch obviously it's a much
older gpu it's a couple years old at
this point
but this was the flagship this was the
king prior to the 30 series launch and
my first reaction on that
was oh my god the 37 just straight up
murdered
the 2080 ti
this 500 card seems incredible but then
you take a look at the details
and you start to notice some things that
may be of concern first
the video memory there's only eight gigs
of vram in here and it has lower memory
bandwidth
so i approached this review with a bit
of skepticism a healthy dose of it
but the reality is this is a great card
it has some quirks but it's an
excellent gpu okay so the benchmarks
first
real quickly it does match the 2080 ti
in some cases it performs better in some
cases it performs worse
but in general it's really close it's
better in most
1440p and 1080p games i think that's
kind of like the strength of this gpu
it's more of a wash when it comes to 4k
games like there seems to be a more even
spread of games that benefit from
the 3070 versus the 2080 ti when it
comes to ray tracing
and dlss it's kind of a mixed bag again
like sometimes the 3070 is better
sometimes the 2080 ti is better
in synthetic benchmarks the 3070 tends
to lose out versus the 2080 ti it's
really close but
just in general the 3070 performs worse
when it comes to
canned performance benchmarks now
all of this i can forgive like any kind
of deficiency that the 3070 seems to
have over the 20ti
it's really small if it exists and it's
so much cheaper like this
is a legitimately 500 card or in theory
it should be 500
we'll get to that in a second but this
even right now two years later you go
look on ebay
it's like a 700 gpu it's still really
expensive so if you can buy a 30 70
this is an awesome car like nothing else
really bangs like this
for 500 bucks right now the card itself
is also small like
really small for a founder's edition
card it's great for certain itx builds
it's got the same kind of vibe as the
3080 and the 3090 so it's got that
industrial design to it
i don't think it looks as nice though
like it's got the same kind of design
lines like the whole fin focused design
language but
it's not as nice looking to me when it's
mounted in a case like it's a more
standard look probably from the more
generic looking bottom plate
the geforce logo on the side doesn't
light up it just seems to be
painted or anodized on there's no leds
behind that thing
and the fans are a slightly different
configuration
than the 3080 and 3090. it's the same
kind of idea where there's two fans one
of them blowing through the device the
other fan exhausting at the back
but both of the fans are on the same
side so there's a very distinct
visual difference between this and the
other two
the power connector on the 3070 fe still
uses that new 12-pin connection
on the 3070 it's mounted perpendicular
to
the gpu so when you have it plugged up
it just comes straight at you
the 3080 and the 3090 they kind of angle
them slightly so that
when you have it plugged up it's just a
little bit easier to route your cable in
a more
tidy fashion the fans are pretty quiet
they're not as big
as the fans on the 3080 or the 3090 but
they still need to spin very fast to
keep the whole
gpu cool even at full wattage now i want
to talk about the
quirks of the gpu let's talk about the
ram first with eight gigs of ram
there's no way to spin it the rtx 3070
does not have
a lot of video memory and when you
compare it to like a 2080 ti
this has 11 gigs you compare it to like
the 2070 or 2080
those are two-year-old gpus that already
had eight gigs of vram so it's weird to
see a current
generation nvidia gpu come out with yet
again
eight gigs of gddr6 it's strange
but at the same time it's at least to me
it's acceptable like the reality is
there are a lot of games that can break
through that eight gigabyte
limit right if you push some games in 4k
even 1440p games
you can break eight gigs of vram pretty
readily if you want to
and there's some games i can use up like
12 15 gigs of vram like you saw
microsoft flight simulator you saw the
benchmarks right the reason why
the 3070 handles it worse than 2080 ti
is because it's a very
video memory demanding game so yes
there are many games that can actually
use more than 8 gigs of vram
but by reducing the amount of memory
they put into this thing it just allowed
them to sell it at a cheaper price right
maybe that's what they needed to have
a 500 rtx 3070 fe
the vast majority of games will not go
beyond that eight gig limit i think even
in four to five years time
you'll still be able to play plenty of
games maxed out with eight gigs of vram
and
watch me eat my words like cyberpunk's
gonna come out it's gonna need like 16
gigs of video memory
the reality is though it's more like the
unoptimized
shooters those are the ones that tend to
chew up video memory
the fastest okay last thing i want to
talk about stock levels
the 3080 and 3090 launch were
pretty poor to say the least i say poor
in terms of like availability it was
really hard for consumers to pick up
these gpus it was
stupidly hard in canada they had like
seven cards and linus had
five of those so it was really hard for
people to pick up these things
i hope that the 3070 is launched better
now they delayed this launch like they
pushed this thing back by a week or
something like that so that
stock levels could be at a more
appropriate level but this
is what is holding this thing back i
think that this gpu like it doesn't
matter how you spin it this is such
a good value for 500 obviously it's not
i don't think it matches everything that
people hoped it to be like if you
expected it to be a 2080 ti
killer like straight up eviscerate the
20 ti
at 500 bucks it doesn't do that there
are certain advantages there is one
other thing i haven't mentioned yet
because of that vram difference like
this thing having 11 gigs
and this thing only having eight i've
noticed that my renders are actually
noticeably faster
with the 2080 ti than the 3070 but
i think most people picking this thing
up are probably doing games and not
editing videos but that is the reality
of the situation
i think this is a great card if you can
get your hands on it i hope to goodness
that they have good stock levels on the
30 70.
okay that wraps up this video hope you
guys enjoyed it thumbs if you liked it
subs you've loved it
i'll see you guys next time